# Learning Zig: Ziglings 1 - 8

Zig (so far) has not really shown how it is low-level C like. Some of the syntax that I have learned so far:

## User Defined Values

Can be either `const` or `var`. Unlike C, where things are mutable by default and can be made `const` as an additional keyword, it seems like in Zig *every* declaration is specified if it is variable or constant.

I haven't done any individual project work yet, but I wonder if the compiler will point out when variables could be constant (obviously, it will know the other). 

**Typing** seems *optional*...? If I want a constant 32 bit integer, I can declare and initialize it as such: 

`const foo: i32 = 1234;` 

I am not a rust programmer by any means, but this seems to be similar to rust in nature. For the primitive types, this makes sense, although I wonder how well dynamic typing works for more complex types, and if style guildelines would still suggest type annotations at all times anyways.

## Arrays
Arrays don't seem that crazy. The syntax feels slightly out of the ordinary. Consider in `005_arrays2.zig`, where an array is declared as such:

`const le = [_]u8{ 1, 3};`

The weird part to me is the [\_]... but perhaps we learn that later. It seems somewhat analagous to C++ empty *collectors* (or whatever they are called). I also love the idea of array operators, such as '++' (concatenation) and '\*\*' (repetition). However, these are only **comptime** operators? Looking forward to knowing more, but if they only work at comptime, I wonder where the useful applications of them are... couldn't I just copy/paste or write out the differences then?

## Functions 

Haven't been dug into yet. Method syntax seems to be like:

`<Protection> fn <func_name>() <return type> {...}` where Protection could be omitted, or `pub` for public. Does the existence of public functions just mean that private functions exist? or are objects going to sneak into this somehow... hmmmmmm
